
1.- Hook

	Build, rent, or hire (on-chain) your own network of scientific instruments to play games with Natureś microscopic creatures, AI agents and friends alike.
	TerraScope, a DIY digital robotic microscope you can build with friends at home and which together you can hook it to others in a Decentralized Physical Infrastructure 
	Network (DePIN) of instruments/game consoles to unravel the secrets of microbial/biological intelligence and discover together how ecosystem function is 
	constructed right under your own feet. 


2.- Problem
	
	Today, science is trapped in institutions,credencialism and expensive instrumentation which keeps most potential citizen scientist from realizing their own scientific 
	potential as curios individuals. AI research agents are themselves closed into digital spaces where reading and reasoning are generating many hypothesis which are waiting 
	to be tested experimentally. By managing payments, the hope is some of the "best hypothesis" can be tested by hiring centralized research platforms. 		
	The problem, both for humas and agents are twofold: (i) physical research infrastructure should be cheap, acessible and ubiqutous. 
	Open Science Hardware (OSH) solves part of this but is often unreliable and not widely availabe to be accessed online; (ii) hypothesis driven science, 
	know as day science is only part of the picture. Once an amazing observation is made, while playing in the lab often in unrelated actions and topics,
	hypothesis can emerge and rigurous, rational experiments can be planned. Before that observation is made, a playfull environments where Nature and Serendepity can have a chance is needed. 
	This is Night Science. To give agents and citizens at large a chance to interact with Nature in a ludic fashion, scientific infrastructure should resemble a playground and scientific 
	instruments a game console.

	A good laboratory has both (access to instruments and protective safe envirinment where to play). The problem is that access to such spaces is every day hard to find. 
	Even if proviledge grant us access to expensive equipement, access to a good mentor and a protective playfull lab environment is ever hard to find.


3.- Vision

	We envision a decentralized world where people and agents play games accesisng DePIN of instruments to interact with Nature in general and biology in particular.
	This democratization of scientific research is posible by cheap DIY OSH available to every one to build, access, hack and modify. At the same time, while playful interactions with Nature 
	take place, serious and rigurous scientific discovery take place. How does biological intelligence implement ecosystem function? Can I trus hardware made at home? 
	Can statistics across many devices emerge? Can agents learn to operate instruments from humans, intelligence from smart bacteria, and together, playing biotic games unravel the secrets 
	needed to create sustainability tech needed to remediate our ailing acosyustems? Is intelligence in the end about sustainability and persistance in a challenging environment?
	Can bacteria teach us and teach our agents? We see a future of intelligent hybridizations of machines, peoples and ecosystems. 

4.- What have you built
	
	Building on top of HardTrust, a web3 device verification layer and TerraScope, a digital robotic microscope, we build TerraGenesis. TerraGenesis is the basic web 3 verification layer
	needed to register a TerraScope machine as node in the DePIN. Furthermore, we also built the software layer needed to attest the provenance of micriscopy data from a registered 
	TerraScope device. Our software, consist on a device, attestation and blockchain stack. A smart contract running on a local or testnet chain, can store a hash from a device at 
	registration (attestation) and later verify the provencance of data emited (microscopy images used to track swarming intelligent microbobes exploring a landscape of habitat) 
	by a given TerraScope. In short our web 3 stack register a device to a DePIN and verify its data on-chain. The stack consist on: (i) Registration device ID, (ii) attestation 
	of a device validity (able to join the DePIN), (iii) verification of data provenance from the registered device.


5.- What  itś different / Insight

	Our web stack allows for the minimal DePIN genesis to occur. We used a single node (TerraScope device) but with our web 3 stack now we can link up several devices and allow for deployed devices 
	to be reachable by remote users and AI agents alike. With a DePIN of scientific instrumentation, ai research agents can be embodied and access Nature directly rather than through literature 
	which is contaminated by the narratives of human researchers and publishing practices. Now, citizen scientist can earn a living (via web 3 DeFI, GameFi, etc) while engaging in measureing 
	Nature and performing experiments themselves. Such DeSci infrastructure act as complement to TradSci and promse to scale up te scope of current scientific research.    	


6.- Bigger picture

	TerraGenesis makes the invisible visible and verifiable and turns any agent and citizen into a scientist, a maker, a developer or a player.
	Currently the most difficult vertical in DeSci is execution of physical experiments and the inclusion of serendepity and physicallity in the hypothesis-based reasoning of agents and 
	citizen scientist alike. By adding both, a GameFI and DePIN OSH lyer we give agentic and citizen research a physical connection to Nature phenomena oon which to play and 	
	conduct experiment when serendepitious observations came across.
